readme.md, before:

# Godot Toolkit for Odin

| :warning: This toolkit is not in a usable state!                                                  |
|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| If you are using parts of it, beware of sudden major changes to the API, structure, and features. |

This currently targets Godot v4.1.1.

## C API Bindings

The C bindings are in `./gdextension/lib.odin`. They're based on `godot-cpp/gdextension/gdextension_interface.h`.

## Generating Complete Bindings

Clone & generate bindings
```sh
git clone --recursive-submodules -j8 https://github.com/dresswithpockets/odin-godot 
cd odin-godot
./bindgen.sh
```

> **N.B.** `bindgen.sh` expects odin on path, submodules updated, and odin-godot is the working directory.
>
> If you'd like, you may build and run `bindgen` yourself, for example:
> ```sh
> odin build ./bindgen -o:speed -out:./bindgen/bindgen.exe
> ./bindgen/bindgen.exe godot-cpp/gdextension/extension_api.json
> ```

## Creating a GDExtension

See [the example godot project](example_project/) for a working usage of these bindings.

Otherwise, create and export an entrypoint for your extension:

```odin
package example

// assuming odin-godot was cloned into your defacto shared collection
import gd "shared:odin-godot/gdextension"

@(export)
example_init :: proc "c" (
    interface: ^gd.Interface,
    library: gd.ExtensionClassLibraryPtr,
    initialization: ^gd.Initialization,
) -> bool {
    // do usual initialization
    return true
}
```

Build as a shared library
```sh
odin build . -build-mode:shared
```

Then, follow the instructions for [using the extension module](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/stable/tutorials/scripting/gdextension/gdextension_cpp_example.html#using-the-gdextension-module).

## Using Generated Bindings

WIP

Commit message:

add some details about godin preprocessor

readme.md, after:

# Godot Toolkit for Odin

| :warning: This toolkit is not in a usable state!                                                  |
|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| If you are using parts of it, beware of sudden major changes to the API, structure, and features. |

This currently targets Godot v4.1.1.

## C API Bindings

The C bindings are in `./gdextension/lib.odin`. They're based on `godot-cpp/gdextension/gdextension_interface.h`.

## Generating Complete Bindings

Clone & generate bindings
```sh
git clone --recursive-submodules -j8 https://github.com/dresswithpockets/odin-godot 
cd odin-godot
./bindgen.sh
```

> **N.B.** `bindgen.sh` expects odin on path, submodules updated, and odin-godot is the working directory.
>
> If you'd like, you may build and run `bindgen` yourself, for example:
> ```sh
> odin build ./bindgen -o:speed -out:./bindgen/bindgen.exe
> ./bindgen/bindgen.exe godot-cpp/gdextension/extension_api.json
> ```

## Creating a GDExtension

See [the example godot project](example_project/) for a working usage of these bindings.

Otherwise, create and export an entrypoint for your extension:

```odin
package example

// assuming odin-godot was cloned into your defacto shared collection
import gd "shared:odin-godot/gdextension"

@(export)
example_init :: proc "c" (
    interface: ^gd.Interface,
    library: gd.ExtensionClassLibraryPtr,
    initialization: ^gd.Initialization,
) -> bool {
    // do usual initialization
    return true
}
```

Build as a shared library
```sh
odin build . -build-mode:shared
```

Then, follow the instructions for [using the extension module](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/stable/tutorials/scripting/gdextension/gdextension_cpp_example.html#using-the-gdextension-module).

## Godin

Godin is a preprocessor which generates most of the boilerplate for Extension Classes, Methods, Enums, Properties, Signals, Groups, and Subgroups.

For example, the following Odin code will produce all of the boilerplate for an extension class "Player" that extends "Node2D".
```odin
package test

//+class Player extends Node2D
Player :: struct {
    health: i64,
}
```

To build Godin:
```sh
# while in the odin-godot directory
./build_godin.sh
```

Run `godin help` for usage details, including documentation about the Godin preprocessor syntax.
